the ability to come to you in the name of your son.
Your son that came and died for our sins or we just celebrated Christmas where we celebrate the fact that he came and was born as a common person in the
feeding trough of an animal and he lived a normal life here as a human even though he was God.
He did that for us and he died the most horrific, painful death simply because he loved us and he knew that he would be the only way.
And Lord, we thank you for that.
We thank you for that sacrifice.
Lord, I thank you for the opportunity to come even on a cold, snowy day and worship together with my church family.
Some that are here in person and some that are viewing online.
And Lord, it doesn't matter because you are omnipresent, you are with us everywhere.
Lord, we thank you and praise you for the start of this year, 2025.
I believe you're going to do mighty things here at Berea Temple.
I believe you're going to do mighty things in the lives of these individuals.
And Lord, we thank you for allowing us to be a part of it.
Lord, we know that we, you don't need us.
Lord, we need You.
But You want to use us.
You want to use the individuals here that are represented by this church to do mighty things in this city.
This city that needs You.
This city that has to be You.
It has to be Jesus Christ for St. Louis to be turned around.
No political person, no ideology, no program is going to do it.
It has to be Jesus Christ.
It has to be the power of the Holy Spirit.
And that's what we want to see in 2025 is we're going to be talking about stories throughout this year.
I believe we're going to hear stories from the individuals here at Berea Temple, stories of transforming, stories of restoration, stories of you doing mighty things through individuals because that's the God that we serve.
Well, we thank you and praise you for that.
We thank you and praise you for what you're going to do.
I ask you to be with the remainder of this service.
Lord, help me to speak what you want.
Help not my personality, not my words to come out, but you and you alone.
We thank you and praise you in the mighty name of Jesus.
We do pray.
Amen.
Well, today before I get started with my sermon, as we were singing and we were singing that song where it says God restores every heart, I just want to, God really put on my heart that 2025 is going to be a year of restoration.
I don't know what you may have lost in 2024.
You may have lost your, your zeal for God.
I don't know.
You may have had some financial losses.
I'm not sure.
You may have lost friends or loved ones or connections.
I don't know what you lost in 2024, but God put on my heart to remind me first and to remind you as well that God is a God of restoration.
I don't know what exactly it is that you need restoration for, but God is in the restoration business.
We can call out the mighty name of Jesus.
I love that song.
Because we sometimes, I think, forget the power that we have, the ability to speak the most powerful name on earth, the name of Jesus Christ, the ability to come before God the Father and speak.
the name of Jesus.
That's pretty big.
That's pretty awesome.
So before I get started, I wanted to just remind everybody that God is in the restoration business.
He is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
And he's restored time and time again.
We can read about it through the Bible.
We hear about it when people come up here for Thanksgiving.
He will do it for you too.
You just have to cry out in the name of Jesus.
Well, it is an honor and a privilege to be here, even though the weather's a little rough, but it's awesome that we're able to be here in church.
And I know not everybody can be, so a shout out to those who are watching online.
SAFE does have to come first.
But even on this kind of weird hybrid morning, we call it a hybrid service,
We can still come together, and God can be here at Brea Temple.
There's more than three gathered here, but He can also be in your living room, in your car, in your office, wherever you happen to be watching, because God is everywhere.
He's omnipresent.
He's all-powerful.
He is the same here in this building as He is where you're at.
Open your hearts today, and let's get into talking about stories.
Last week, Pastor Mike started off our sermon series about stories.
The Bible is what we're going to be talking on.
And last week, though, he reminded us of why we tell our story.
So today, as I get into the first story from the Bible that we're going to look at, I want to remind us that as we look at these different individuals, the heroes of faith, the heroes of the Bible, the stories that make us sit back in awe and wonder of what God did through everyday ordinary people,
He wants to do that to us.
So as we look at these stories, we need to find encouragement.
We need to look for inspiration of what could be your story because God wants to do something big and mighty in your life.
It doesn't matter.
You know, we're all here together.
We've got kids church with us here this morning.
It doesn't matter if you're a kid or an adult or a teenager.
It doesn't matter if you're a boy or a girl, it doesn't matter where you came from or how much money you have in your bank account.
We can look through the Bible and God used all people, super rich people.
Today we're gonna talk about Abraham and he was a very wealthy man, one of the most wealthy men in the Bible.
But he also used individuals throughout the Bible that had nothing to their name.
Jesus himself was considered poor.
It doesn't matter where you came from.
It doesn't matter what you have going on.
It matters who you know.
And if you know Jesus Christ, that same Jesus that we just sang about, if he is the Lord of your life, if you're his disciple, if you're following him, God wants to have you share your story.
So today we are going to talk about for just a few minutes the call of Abraham.
And we are going to talk about the call of Abraham.
Now this is an awesome story.
It's a story that really resonates with me.
But it's also kind of daunting to talk about the call of Abraham and one service because you could go into such great detail because really this is the beginning of
our story.
We talked about who we are last year.
We talked about the 16 fundamental truths.
We talked about the fact that we need to be good neighbors and that we need to bring hope and healing to our community.
And really, that all goes back to this call of Abraham.
Because this is where God set out His chosen people.
This is where the nation of Israel is going to be formed from.
And we know that we're adopted in.
We're grafted into the family of Abraham.
We are God's children.
You may be saying, I'm not Jewish.
That doesn't matter.
God said you're a part of that family.
You're adopted in.
You're grafted in.
We're part of the family of Abraham.
But ultimately, we're going to talk about Abraham a lot today.
But really, this boils down to...
Testing, okay.
So you can go through any book of the Bible and you're gonna find Jesus.
The Bible is the story of Jesus Christ.
Yes, it talks about different individuals, different people, and the mighty things that they did through the power of God.
But at the end of the day, it's the story of Jesus.
And this story of Abraham is no different.
So before we get into this, let's just talk about what a call is.
because the call of Abraham, if here in a minute we're gonna turn to Genesis chapter 12, and most versions that have the little headings is gonna say the call of Abraham before this section of scriptures.
But what is a call?
A call is when someone is chosen to do something.
So most, a lot of us have kids in here, and those of us that don't have been a kid, and we know the call of a parent.
Hey, I need you to do this.
Whether you're the parent or you're the kid, you know that's something you better do or there's going to be consequences.
A lot of us have earned the workforce.
Your job, your boss says, okay, listen, they give you a call and say, I need you to do this.
So those are the kind of things that a call is and God calls people.
We could go through the Bible and story after story.
We can see God calling people.
You know, I think of Samuel a lot when I think of God calling people.
This little boy who was dedicated to God, taken to live in the temple of God at a very young age, and he literally heard the voice of God calling to him.
He didn't know who it was at first, but eventually he
figured it out the light came on and he's like oh this is God Lord send me the disciples also literally had God in the flesh before them will you follow me and they followed but but throughout the time period of the Bible God often calls people without
using words.
He uses a still small voice.
He uses a tug at the heart.
And as we're going to talk about Abraham and his call, I want you to be thinking this entire time, what is the call on your life?
What is God want you to do in 2025?
Because I believe 2025 is going to be a year of restoration.
But I also believe that through that restoration it is going to be a year of God doing mighty things in the lives of Bereans.
God wants to use you.
He doesn't want to just use Pastor Mike and me and Pastor Letitia and Pastor Sarah and Pastor Raph.
He wants to use every single person in this building, whether you're a little kid or the oldest person here, it doesn't matter.
God wants to use you.
He has a calling for you.
So as for the next few minutes, we just talk about the call of Abraham.
Let us think about that.
What is my calling?
What does God want from me?
What does God want to see done through me?
So, first we are going to go to the book of Hebrews.
Now, the book of Genesis is where we're going to talk about the call of Abraham, but the book of Hebrews chapter 11 is known as the Hall of Faith.
You know, if you have sports, there's the Hall of Faith or Hall of
fame of NBA, the Hall of Fame of soccer, the Hall of Fame of everything unimaginable anymore, they seem to do it.
But this is the Hall of Faith.
We're in the book of Hebrews, the church is being persecuted, the church has gone through great trials, and so inspired by the Holy Spirit, it is written down all these individuals throughout the Old Testament that showed great faith.
And while Abraham wasn't the very first one, it starts with Abel and tells us what faith is, Abraham is the one in the middle that kind of creates the rest.
He's the starting point, like we said, of really our faith.
He is the starting point of God's chosen people.
He is the starting point of those things.
So I'm going to turn to Hebrews chapter 11, and we're just going to read
verse eight, and then we're going to turn and look at Genesis 12 right after that.
So if you have your Bible and you're wanting to get ahead, as soon as we read this first, we're going to turn over to Genesis chapter 12.
And I love the chapter 11 of Hebrews.
If you're ever feeling discouraged or down, this is a great chapter to go and read and to energize yourself and to read about men and women, ordinary people that God used.
So in verse 8 it says, So Abraham didn't even know where he's going.
He just had to follow by faith.
And I'm sure some of us, if not all of us in here have had that same thing.
God tells you, hey, listen, I want you to do this.
God burst something in your heart, but He doesn't give you every single detail right off the bat.
He says, I want you to do this, and I will help you along the way.
Now as people, sometimes that drives us crazy, because we would like a detailed list to get us going.
You know, I'm a teacher, and we had AMI days this week, which was kind of crazy.
And so I had to put online and all these detailed instructions for my kids to hopefully log onto their computer on a snow day and do work.
And those that did follow those instructions to know what they were doing.
If I had just posted an assignment with no instructions, I probably wouldn't have got anybody to do it, because they'd be like, I don't know what to do.
And sometimes that's how we are with God.
We're like, yeah, you told me to do this, but I need detailed instructions.
And guess what?
Sometimes that doesn't happen.
So this is the calling in Genesis chapter 12.
We're going to read verses one through four.
It says, the Lord had said to Abraham, leave your native country, your relatives, your father's family and go to the land that I will show you.
I will make you into a great nation.
I will bless you and make you famous and I will be a blessing to others.
I will bless those who bless you and curse those who treat you with contempt.
All the families on earth will be blessed through you.
So Abraham departed as the Lord had instructed and Lot went with him.
Abraham was 75 years old when he left Heron.
So God lays out, listen, I want you to go.
I'm not even going to tell you where yet.
Just go.
That was Abraham's call.
So Abraham had to hear that call from God.
And he did.
And we're going to talk about why he heard that call for just a moment or two.
But I want you to ask this question before we get into the meat of this sermon.
If God was to call you right now, would you be in a place to hear that call?
Think about it, just for a moment, if God was calling you right now in 2025, not off in the future, not off when you've got everything fixed and gathered together, when you've got everything in your life perfect, if he called you right now, would you be in a place to hear that call?
Because yeah, we can read those few verses where God says, go, I want you to do this.
But what does that tell us about Abraham?
I think it tells us that Abraham already had and was already working on his relationship with God.
It wasn't like he was just walking along someday and God randomly, Abraham, I want you to do this.
God knew Abraham.
Abraham knew God.
He would have heard the stories of God providing a way to save humanity through Noah and the Ark.
He would have heard the stories of God making away time and time again.
The relative in his direct line that was close to God and God simply took, he didn't die, Enoch.
He would have heard these stories and he knew who God was.
He was already serving God.
This isn't where Abraham became the hero of faith.
This is where the path of personal faith became an outward
Yes, I'm gonna do it.
And everybody around him could see that.
Abraham already knew God's voice.
So today, that begs us the question, are we in that place?
Is our heart, our relationship with God in a place where we can hear that call?
Because Abraham's was.
And just like I mentioned earlier, you can go through the Bible, Samuel, his heart was right.
He was there wanting to hear what God had to say to him.
Even the disciples, yes, they were fishermen and tax collectors and people who would not have been chosen for ministry teams, but sometimes we think of them as didn't know the Bible, didn't know the Old Testament.
No, they were Jewish men that knew God.
They served God.
They loved God.
They just happened to be fishermen and these other things instead of somebody who went into the field of being a rabbi.
They still had that relationship with God.
They were searching for the Messiah.
So when John is telling them, here's the Messiah that's gonna change your life, that's gonna forgive your sins, they were ready and open.
And so when Jesus said, come, they were ready to follow.
Their heart was already in the right place.
So if you don't hear anything else that I say today,
I want you to ask yourself that question, is your heart in the right place?
Because if you're not in a place to hear God, if you're not in a place to hear your call, then all the rest of it isn't really gonna help you out much because you have to be in that place.
Abraham heard the call.
God said, I want you to go, I'll tell you where when you're on the way.
And we don't have time to get into the entire story of Abraham.
That would be a probably month, two month series in its own.
But Abraham didn't always have everything go perfectly in his journey to the Promised Land.
He didn't always have everything go exactly as he would have liked it.
He met struggles, he met hardships, but because he knew who God was, he kept on moving forward and he obeyed that call.
And like I said, I want to remind us today that God has a call for you.
God has a call for every single one of us today.
A verse that I use almost every week in youth.
We're gonna, is Jeremiah 2911.
Must have skipped that.
Here it is.
For I know the plans I have for you says the Lord, they are plans for good, not for disaster, to give you a future and a hope.
We're going to talk about Abraham's call and it's awesome and it's inspirational, but this is your call.
God
said this to the children of Israel.
And like I said, if you're a Christian, if you've asked Jesus to be the Lord of your life, you're grafted in that family.
So yes, let's talk about Abraham's call, but this is your call.
God has given you a future and a hope.
Now I don't know what that looks like for you.
Maybe that looks like God's calling you to step up and be a small group leader.
Maybe that's God calling you to step up and help with the online church.
Maybe it's just to share your faith
with a friend, a coworker, a fellow student in your class, someone that is searching, someone that is seeking, but does not have that relationship, and you're going to be the only Jesus, the only Bible that person sees.
Maybe that's what God is calling for you to do.
I don't know, but He does, and His plan is good.
That doesn't mean it's gonna be easy.
I wanna make that clear.
You know, sometimes we look at this first and say, well, God's gonna make everything work out perfectly with no issues, no wrinkles.
That's not what this means.
It means it's a good plan.
It may be difficult.
It may be hard.
It may have some twists and turns.
But it is a plan that God wants to use for you to do mighty things.
So God gave Abraham a call and God is giving you a call.
And then, after Abraham heard the call, Abraham obeyed the call.
I think it's this weather, my throat has been super dry.
But Abraham obeyed the call.
Abraham heard from God, Abraham heard what God was asking, and then he went and did it.
You know, looking in,
Genesis chapter 12, we're gonna go down and start off in verse five, or actually I'm gonna go back to verse four.
So Abraham departed as the Lord had instructed and lot went with him.
Abraham was 75 years old, he left Heron.
So as soon as he heard the call, he obeyed the call.
That sounds really easy.
That sounds like, well maybe Abraham
didn't have anything to risk, didn't have anything to put on the line, God said go move, maybe it wasn't that big of a deal.
But let's talk about Abraham, a little historical context about who he was as a person.
He was a very wealthy individual.
He had lots of cattle, he had lots of workers, he had lots of tents, he had lots of people under him.
He was a super wealthy person.
Now think about Elon Musk, Bill Gates.
He was that kind of guy.
He was a super mega rich person.
And so God says, go and move.
I'll tell you when you get there.
That can be pretty daunting.
You know, go into a new place where you may or may not speak the language.
Go into a new place where you don't know anybody.
I know a lot of people in this church have experienced that.
Go into a new land, go into a new country.
And that's what God told Abraham to do.
He didn't know if he would get to keep all his stuff, all his belongings, all his money.
He didn't know if he would get to this new land and he would be attacked and killed.
That happened all the time.
It still happens today, but back in that time, even people that were
Friends, if you will with you, would often attack you.
It was very dangerous to go on trips.
That's why we get the story of the Good Samaritan.
People literally, what they did for a living was hit out and as people were traveling, they would jump out and attack them and instill their money.
Abraham was putting a lot on the line when he obeyed.
It just says, okay, Abraham went and did it.
But I'm sure that took a lot of praying, a lot of heart, a lot of putting God first.
What does that tell us about Abraham?
That tells us that he had his priorities in line.
God was first.
Like I said, I believe God is going to do big and mighty things.
I believe he's gonna call you and you may have to come to a struggle, a question of priorities.
God is asking me to do this.
That's gonna put my job at risk.
God's asking me to do this.
It's gonna put my relationships with my friends at risk.
God's asking me to go here.
And I don't know.
I've never been there.
I've never talked to that person.
Whatever it is, God may ask you to do something that seems crazy.
I guarantee you, you know, the Bible is trying to summarize this story of Abraham in as short amount of time as possible.
I guarantee Abraham thought that was crazy.
You know just like later on when the angel of God is there telling Abraham that he's gonna have a kid at 100 his wife is laughing because she thinks wow, that's crazy But God can do things that are crazy Because back then asking a super wealthy person that had family that had connections just to get up and move for no other reason would be weird it would be crazy and
But God had a plan behind that.
God had a purpose behind that.
When that verse told us that he was going to bless all people, not just Abraham's descendants, but all people, were gonna be blessed through Abraham, that was talking about Jesus Christ.
because God would give Abraham a son.
God would give Abraham a nation.
God would give all of these things to Abraham and keep him safe.
But at this point in time, Abraham had to take that by faith.
So the start of this year, when God has put in that call into your life, you may have to take it by faith.
He's not gonna give you the five step plan.
And sometimes he does.
but sometimes he doesn't.
His ways are higher than our ways, his thoughts are higher than our thoughts, and no matter what, he is gonna tell you the best that is for you.
He wants to use you to do mighty things.
I know and I believe that God has a big plan and a big purpose for Bria Temple, for you individuals.
I tell it to my kids and youth all the time.
God wants to do mighty things through your life.
So let's continue the story.
We're back at verse four.
We're going to go ahead and read through verse six.
So Abraham departed as the Lord had instructed and Lot went with him.
Abraham was 75 years old when he left Heron.
Let's stop right there.
Abraham was not a young man.
You know, this was not the time of Noah where people lived to be 900 years old.
When a little later on the line, when God is promising him a son at 100, he says that's way past the age to have a kid.
So at 75, he was not considered a young man.
He was getting up there in age.
God uses people of all ages, all backgrounds.
Yeah, he had a lot of money, but he was also, he probably thought he was done for.
He was ready just to retire and watch his inheritance grow, watch his nephew inherit it.
I'm sure that's what he thought Lot was gonna do.
That's why he brought him with him.
We know God had other plans.
But he was an older guy.
It doesn't matter who you are, God wants to use you to do mighty things.
So let's continue reading.
So God told him to go and he obeyed.
He obeyed that call.
So today I believe God wants to do something big and mighty in your life.
I know I'm gonna repeat that over and over again.
I'm sometimes a repetitive preacher because sometimes we need to hear it a few times before it gets into our mind.
That's why in school we start with what we're gonna talk about, we talk about it, and then we re-talk about it three or four times before the class is over till everybody in the class is like, I don't wanna talk about it anymore.
But then I ask them a question and they actually remember it.
And they're like, oh,
I guess that worked.
So sometimes I know you might hear Pastor Mike, you might hear me, you might hear Pastor Letitia, say the same thing over and over again.
I definitely do that in youth.
It's because we want it to stick into your heart.
I believe I know God has a plan for you and he wants to see mighty things happen through you.
Not just coming here to church, yes, that's important, but he wants to see mighty things happen in you, in your home, in your family, in your friend group, in your workplace, in your school.
God wants to do mighty things through your life.
One little side note before we get on to my last point is if we look back, this is chapter 12 in Genesis.
Does anybody know what takes place in chapter 11 of Genesis?
Anybody right off?
Any Bible scholars in here?
It's a story we hear about a lot in kids church and sometimes youth.
It's the Tower of Babel.
So right before we hear about Abraham and his call from God, we hear about the Tower of Babel.
The fact that God had given a call to that group of people too to go and populate the earth.
And instead they said, no, we're staying here and we're going to build a tower up to you to put a thumb in your face to show you that we're just as good or better than you, God.
That group of people was scattered.
That's where all the different languages came from at that time.
And those people had that same call to go.
and to spread, they didn't listen.
So Abraham had seen the negative side of things too.
Earlier I talked about him seeing the positive.
He knew the stories of Noah, the stories of Enoch, the stories of Abel.
But guess what?
He knew the bad side of things too when people didn't listen.
Think about, he would have heard the story of Noah and think of all those people that had that same call.
Noah was telling people, come on, get your life right, get your life right.
Nobody would listen.
They just made fun of him, joked at him, harassed him.
God always makes a way.
There is consequences.
I'm going to stop and give just a brief story because we're talking about stories, so I want to give a brief story for my life.
I've been in this situation like I said before where God said go and I didn't understand it.
As you guys know, I'm a teacher as well as a pastor.
And I started off my teaching career.
I taught four years at a Christian school, and I loved it.
I thought it was what I was going to do the rest of my life.
I was going to be at that school.
And it was a small Christian school, so things came up.
The finances were down.
And so I was not able to have my contract renewed because of that.
And so I was applying for teaching job after teaching job and praying, God, listen, I know I went to college.
You made a way for me to do that.
I didn't think it was going to be possible.
You brought me through that.
Now I have this teaching degree, this experience.
Lord, open the door for me to be a teacher.
That's what I wanted.
That was my heart's desire.
But what God said was the door He opened and the path that He created was Presbyterian children's homes and services.
residential treatment center for kids with all kinds of behavioral and mental health issues.
And I was like, Lord, I'm not prepared for this.
I don't have the training for this.
This is not what I want.
No.
But he said, this is what you do.
And I did it.
And at first I did it kicking my feet.
I wasn't happy about it.
I was angry about it.
I did it.
And then when I finally came to the place where, you know what God?
You know, the next year came around, I prayed for teaching jobs again, and places that I thought people I even knew, they're like, yeah, you'll definitely get this job, and then it would always fall through at the last minute.
Like, God, what is up?
And then I finally, the light came on in my head, and I realized, hey, this is where God wants me.
He is calling me to presbyterian children's homes and services, so let's just go with it.
And when I did that job that I hated the first year, became a job that I enjoyed and loved doing.
I got to minister to kids in their darkest hour.
Kids that would never step foot in a church, children that have suffered all kinds of hard things and didn't understand where God was in that, I was able to come and speak to their hearts, because God had called me for a time, for a season to be there.
So when God calls you, I would encourage you not to go, yes, I'm gonna do it, but kicking your feet and angry about it, because that first year, I missed out.
I was not in a happy place at work.
I was not in a happy place at home.
I was not in a happy place in my spiritual walk.
I was doing what God had called, but I wasn't doing it with the right heart and the right attitude.
So I would encourage you to be like Abraham.
Just go and say, yes, I don't understand it, but we're going to do it.
Because guess what?
When you do that, God will make a way.
I don't know what you're calling is and I don't know the trials that you're facing.
You may be facing anxiety.
You may be facing financial issues, family issues.
I don't know.
But I know that people are walking through hard times and going through difficult situations.
But let me tell you God will make a way.
I have been in this last two years in situations where it looked like it was over.
I'm out.
This is not going to work.
And God made a way.
I've been at times where it looked like we couldn't afford something and God made a way.
I have seen God provide us a house that was way out of our price range.
And God made a way for us to get it.
I still don't understand how that happened.
But I've also been in situations where God like, you need to move and we lost a different house.
God always makes a way though.
If we're willing to follow, just like Abraham obeyed that call, I know God has a call.
We can look at Jeremiah 29-11.
all kinds of verses throughout the Old and New Testament.
God wants to call people.
He doesn't need us, but that is who he is.
That is the character of God.
He is a God of relationship that calls men and women, boys and girls to do mighty things.
He could do it all on his own, but he doesn't want to.
He wants to use you.
So when you hear that call, I would encourage you to be like Abraham and go in full steam
Yeah, you may face encounters, Abraham ended up face to face with the Pharaoh of Egypt.
And he was afraid that he was gonna get killed, so he said, yeah, this is not my wife, this is my sister.
He messed up.
There was other times where Abraham didn't do the right thing.
We're not really talking about it today, but we know that God would eventually provide a son that would be the father of the nation of Israel.
But when that wasn't happening, he said, I'm going to marry one of my servants and have a kid through her.
I'm going to make God's plan happen.
So Abraham made mistakes too.
That's what I love about the Bible, that it doesn't shy away from the fact that God uses people.
And guess what?
Sometimes people make mistakes.
That's why we only put our faith in Jesus Christ, not in people.
but God still uses those people if they're willing to say, okay, I'm sorry, I messed up, I made a mistake.
That's what Abraham did and God fulfilled his purpose.
God fulfilled the call to Abraham.
God said, go and I will bless you, go and I will make you famous, go and I will bless all
the nations of the world through you.
And guess what?
God is a man of His word.
When God says it, He does it.
You can take it to the bank.
These promises in the Bible, if you're in the right heart and in the right place with God, He will come through.
He will make a way.
We're going to go and
I'm running out of time, so we're gonna switch over to Roman, or Hebrews.
I forgot my glasses, okay.
Oops, somehow I got into, if you guys could put me back onto the, I don't know how I got into the songs.
My bad.
So we're just gonna go ahead and read it.
It may not be up on the screen.
That is fine.
It looks like they got it up there.
Okay, so we're gonna go to Hebrews chapter 11.
This is that Hall of Faith and we're gonna read about what God did through Abraham.
God did mighty things because Abraham was willing to follow God because he was willing to listen and willing to do what God asked of him.
So it was by faith that Abraham obeyed when God called him to leave home and go to another land that God would give him as an inheritance.
He went without knowing where he was going.
And even when he reached the land, God promised him, he lived there by faith.
For he was like a foreigner living in tents.
And so did Isaac, Jacob, who inherited the same promise.
Abraham was confidently looking forward to a city with eternal foundations, a city designed and built by
God.
So God did mighty things for Abraham.
He fulfilled that call.
But even in the midst of that, he was still having to put his faith in God.
Even in the midst of that, it says he was like a foreigner living.
You know, he lived right by Sodom and Gomorrah.
We know the story of those two towns, some of the most depraved cities on earth at that time or anytime.
And that's right where God put him.
So he was living in the midst of that.
He was living in the midst of that and we might look out on the news and think we're living in the midst of that.
The country is literally on fire in parts.
Things are not going the way it should be.
But I'm here to tell you we don't have to worry about political leaders.
We don't have to put our faith in community organizations.
And I'm not saying it's not important to get involved in things that you're passionate about.
But those things are not gonna save us.
No politician, Republican, Democrat, independent or anything else is gonna save us or this country.
It has to be Jesus Christ.
It has to be the power of the Holy Spirit.
That is where your story is gonna be.
So as this year as we look out on stories, we've talked about the story of Abraham being called
What about your story?
What do you think your story is gonna be?
And I believe, I know if you put your faith and your trust in Jesus Christ, your story is gonna be awesome because God is a God who does amazing things.
It may not be easy.
It may not make sense.
It may make you ask, are you crazy?
Am I crazy?
Does this make any sense?
But if God tells you
I encourage you to do it and do it with the right heart, the right attitude, not kicking your feet, not complaining about it.
Do it and God will make a way.
So in closing, we're going to have a time of prayer.
I'm going to pray and then if anybody needs to come up and pray for anything, if you're at home, you can use this time to meet your need, to meet your
God where you're at on your knees and you're home.
It doesn't matter, but This is a time to ask God What you're calling might be this is a time to ask what your story might look like
This is a time that God wants to do big and mighty things.
And maybe you're the place where you're like, I don't know, my heart's not in the right spot.
This is a time where you can reconnect with God.
If you don't know him, if you've never asked Jesus to be the Lord of your life, to be your savior today is the day.
We are not promised another minute, another hour.
We do not know when the end will come.
But I can tell you this.
I believe 2025 is going to be a year of awesome stories.
Yes, every Sunday we're going to hear awesome stories from the Bible.
But I am as excited as I am about that.
I am more excited to hear your stories of God moving and working in your life because I know it is going to happen.
I know we're going to see mighty things take place in the city of St. Louis.
We're going to see God do mighty, miraculous works.
So I'm gonna pray.
The praise team is gonna sing.
If you need to come at that time and pray, we'll be here to pray with you or pray for you.
And if you're at home, reach out.
Use the chat function.
People are there to pray with you as well.
Dear Lord, I do come to you right now in the name of your son, Jesus Christ.
Lord, today as we've looked at the calling that you gave Abraham that you put upon his life, Lord, you called him to go and do something that didn't make sense.
And Lord, right now I strongly believe that your Holy Spirit is speaking to hearts and lives here in this building and throughout that are listening online.
Lord, that you have big things in store for individuals.
for the little ones, Lord, for the teenagers, for the adults.
Lord, I know that you want to use
Every brand no matter how old no matter how young no matter how new to the family Lord you want to use them to do mighty things and Lord I believe that you're gonna use 2025 to bring restoration Restoration to families Lord restoration to to this church Lord you can do mighty things Lord you are a God who is able it is you and only you it is through the mighty power of Jesus Christ through the Holy Spirit working and moving through individuals that are willing
And Lord, I believe that that is what we're gonna see.
We thank You in advance, Lord, for the mighty things.
I believe at the end of this year, when we're meeting together and talk about 2025, we're gonna have story after story, so many that they won't even fit into one service of God working and moving through these lives.
Lord, we thank You for that.
Just work and move and tug on hearts.
Lord, if there is anybody that is listening, Lord, that doesn't know You, Lord, send Your Holy Spirit to convict them to draw them to You.
like only you can do, Lord.
It can't be us.
It has to be you, your mighty power, your mighty name.
That is the only thing that is able.
Well, we thank you and praise you for that.
We thank you for all that you have done.
Lord, it is in your mighty name I do pray.